SPEAKER 1: So, Addy, why is
there a skeleton on your desk?
ADDY: So there's a skeleton on
my desk because I ordered this
off Amazon yesterday and--
SPEAKER 1: Well, Matt why don't
you ask the question actually.
MATT: I was just like why
are you talking to him?
Addy, he clearly teed
you up to start the show.
ADDY: I know, but I was
like OK, let's reset.
Start properly.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
MATT: So are you
going to explain
the skeleton in the coffin?
ADDY: Oh this?
This is a coffin I ordered
off of Amazon last night.
MATT: Oh good so you needed
speedy delivery on it.
ADDY: Yeah.
Yeah I did.
It's ruined my
recommendations now.
It just keep saying
subscribe and save on coffins
for your friends and family.
MATT: But why is it here Addy?
ADDY: So this is here because
it's the end of an era.
This is the final episode
of Totally Tooling Tips.
MATT: Yeah and this is partly
my fault, mostly my fault,
I don't know.
It depends how you
want to spin it.
ADDY: We can say it's 51%
your fault and 49% mine.
MATT: So I'm actually
changing teams within Google.
So I'm actually working on open
source rather than developer
relations and I can't
really do this anymore.
ADDY: And I am a manager now.
So I spend time-
MATT: Managing.
ADDY: -really
managing and tweeting.
MATT: So the reason we're
doing this last episode
is because it's been
a while since we've
done our last episode.
ADDY: It's been like a
year since the last one.
MATT: Kind of like
I don't think either
of us wanted to just leave it
just hanging one last episode.
ADDY: Yeah.
MATT: We kind of
owe it to everyone
who's viewed and stuck with us.
ADDY: We had people
coming up and saying,
will they, won't
they, do a new season.
And I think a wrap up is good.
MATT: Yeah, I think it's needed.
So let's go back to
where we started off.
ADDY: It all started
at the coffee shop.
The very first episode we did
was about Sublime, I think.
MATT: Oh yeah.
ADDY: We did a whole ton of-
MATT: Sublime plugins.
ADDY: -talking about
Sublime plugins.
What's mostly changed
is a lot of people
have shifted over to VSCode.
Love it.
It's great.
It's relatively fast.
Great plugin ecosystem
and all that fun stuff.
MATT: It was Atom in the middle.
And that's still
actually going and being
developed, which is cool.
Obviously you should still
be checking out plugins
because a ton of useful ones.
But yeah, VSCode is the one
that I'm using now pretty
much constantly.
ADDY: The coffee
shop was interesting
because we didn't
realize that it
was going to stay
running the entire time
that we were shooting.
MATT: We thought we
had booked it out.
ADDY: Yeah so people were
coming in to get coffee
like every five minutes.
MATT: You must have
used Dreamweaver right?
ADDY: Yeah I used Dreamweaver
but I used other tools
before Dreamweaver.
I used Notepad.
MATT: Notepad's not
really a tool is it?
It's-
ADDY: What are
you talking about?
Notepad was the pinnacle
tool of it's time.
MATT: Yeah with the coffee
machine with the milk frother
thing.
ADDY: It's fine.
We totally fit in
we were like, yeah
Mocha, Chai, Jasmine,
their Starbucks order.
It's great.
MATT: I forgot all
of those tools.
Anyway, we did those and then
we moved to the game shop
and we kind of do another
round of stuff which was good
So what do you think the
future holds for life?
ADDY: The future for life?
Global warming.
Skynet taking over.
The human species just
being obliterated.
But on the flip side, we've got
ES6 so it's all going to be OK.
MATT: Everything
worked out great then.
ADDY: It's going to be great.
MATT: Game shop was
interesting because then we
had the trains running
over the top of it.
But at least it was closed.
So that was helpful
for the most part.
Then we did the freezing
cold outside show.
ADDY: Here we are back in
our natural environment,
next to lifeless
barges and wildlife
that probably hates us.
MATT: But it's stopped
raining so we're all right.
ADDY: It has stopped raining.
MATT: Look on the plus side.
ADDY: The Tooling gods
are being kind today.
I should also probably
say, because I
forgot to say it earlier,
I am wearing a hat right
now to distract from the
fact that if you saw,
it seemed like season 1
and scenes like this season
or whatever season
this is, you may
have noticed my accent changed
a little bit in between.
So the hat is to
distract from that.
Because my accent is now
just one long Markov chain
generated by all
sorts of things.
MATT: Yeah, I'm
trying to work out
if you keep a consistent British
accent throughout the series,
or whether it's
just during videos
you have a British accent,
and then outside of the videos
you suddenly turn more
into a California.
ADDY: I've been told that I
just have it when you're around
So I'm entirely
placing blame on you.
MATT: This is why we're going
to carry on having lunch
together so at least I
have some British sounding
people around me.
ADDY: I see, I see.
Good.
What else changed?
We went from sort of linting,
so we went from JSHint-
MATT: To ESLint.
ADDY: JSCS, JSHints-
MATT: Oh JSCS.
ADDY: -ESLint.
MATT: I forgot about JSCS.
Yeah.
ADDY: We should just
write a history book
about tooling at some point.
MATT: And then I'm
big on TypeScript,
at the moment, which means
I'm also using TSLint now.
Because reasons.
ADDY: TypeScript is taken off.
Lots of people love it.
MATT: And then there was
testing, which we told you
about Mocha and Chai.
I still use Mocha and Chai
for running browser tests.
ADDY: Should we do
testing framework bingo?
MATT: Yeah.
Mocha, Chai, Latte, Chocolate.
I mean, if you can get it
at a coffee shop it's good.
ADDY: Mocha, Chai,
AVA, Jest, Cypress fits
in somewhere in there.
But it is-
MATT: And then you've
obviously got Selenium.
ADDY: [INAUDIBLE], Selenium.
MATT: Now Puppeteer.
But I've also switched
from Mocha to AVA,
for the most part, unless I
need it to run in the browser
then I'm on Mocha.
So a future request for
AVA, if you could run
in the browser that'd be cool.
ADDY: I feel like one the things
we were talking about is how
half our time on this show was
just spent complaining about
things and hoping-
MATT: It was kind of a
therapy session for us.
We'd kind of build up all
these problems during the week
and then we'd come
in to do some shows,
and then it would
just be venting.
ADDY: [? #BitchTheWebForward. ?]
MATT: Yeah.
But thank you for anyone
who was working on a tool,
saw our video, and
actually changed something
because they thought it
would make us happier
along with all the other
developers using it.
ADDY: I have to +1 that.
It was really nice getting
any authors like reaching out
to us on Twitter, or
wherever else, and talking
to us about our feedback or
what they're working on next.
And that was kind of nice.
MATT: Yeah.
ADDY: Are there lessons
we want to share?
Did we learn
anything doing this?
MATT: The only thing that
I feel like I've learned
is you will always end
up needing a build tool.
You will need certain
tools in that build tool.
ADDY: You're going to get
so much crap on Twitter
after this about, sort
of, the browser is now
able to do native
ES modules, you're
able to skip a build step during
dev time, all that fun stuff.
MATT: If you're building
production web apps
you are going to
need a build tool,
unless you want to
have a horrible life.
ADDY: We enjoy not
being controversial.
That's great.
MATT: That's my opinion.
I'm going to stick with it.
You can build a nice web app
without any tooling, sure.
It's just going to make
your life so much easier
and your web app will be faster.
Anyway.
ADDY: Anyway.
MATT: Yes you need to build a
build chain with minification,
linting, image
optimizations, CSS
prefixing and
JavaScript prefixing,
I think, somewhere in there.
And then you probably want
tooling for your GitHub pull
requests so it's actually
testing your stuff.
ADDY: What tools are you
actually using at the moment?
I'm kind of curious.
It's been a year since
we've shot anything.
MATT: For my personal
stuff, I'm TypeScript.
I'm using Gulp to
manage bill processes.
I'm then using RollUp
to do minification.
I'm actually using
CSS autoprefixer.
I've moved away from SASS just
because with CSS variables that
was the main thing I
needed and the mixins
I've kind of shied away
from because I realized
I'd get myself in a mess.
That's just me.
ADDY: I feel like I've
been a little bit more
on the framework tooling side
of things for a little bit.
MATT: Yeah, you were doing
a ton of stuff with PWA
supports, and
frameworks, and stuff.
ADDY: Lots and lots
of Webpack and RollUp.
Playing a lot with React, Redux,
Preacts, all those fun things.
Taking a look Next
at the moment.
MATT: You did your image
optimization book as well.
ADDY: Fitted that in
somewhere in between.
I feel like there's
lots of conversations
in the community at the moment
about sort of large scale CSS,
and whether you should use CSS
modules, styled components,
emotion, CSS in
JavaScript, Shadow DOM.
All sorts of weird
and wonderful things.
MATT: But components
are the one thing
where I'm kind of-
I want to use them
but I'm not totally sure
that they're stabilized yet.
ADDY: Interesting.
I feel like custom elements
are at a pretty decent place.
And browsers support for
Shadow DOM has been improving.
But at the end of the day-
MATT: You can get pretty
far without Shadow DOM,
but it was the
polyfills and everything
to make it work always
seemed to cause me
issues to a point where it
was working in one browser,
I'd try and make it run.
It didn't.
And then I'd try
using the polyfills
and then it didn't
work in either,
or it would work in one,
but not the- I just, yeah.
ADDY: How do you stay on top
of tooling-related things
these days?
MATT: Oh, I've
willfully just pretended
that there are no new
tools, and as long
as I just have something
updating my packages,
and they keep on
working, I'm fine.
ADDY: That seems fair.
I wouldn't be surprised if a
lot of people do the same thing.
MATT: Yeah, it's just as
long as they don't get
deprecated I'm fine.
ADDY: I mean, the
tools are there
to help you get
productive and do stuff.
And you shouldn't just
be choosing things
because they're cool, or
on the [INAUDIBLE] website,
or whatever.
MATT: This is always
that tricky situation.
You never try it, you'll
never know if it's
better for whatever reason.
ADDY: This is true.
MATT: And I feel like,
let's say a new minification
tool came out.
Should you use it or not?
It should ultimately
kind of be determined
by how long does
it take to build,
and how small is the final size?
And if neither of those things
are drastically different,
it's arguable whether
you should do it or not.
Again, in my opinion.
Other people would argue, well
you should go for smallest size
possible, and at that point
you could argue well you
should just run both tools,
pick the smallest one, and run.
ADDY: No, I completely agree.
One thing we should say,
something that we usually
didn't have time for,
because we trying
to keep things nice
and compact, was
a huge thank you to everybody
that works on tools.
Like people don't
always realize it,
but sometimes these really
super popular dependencies
are only maintained by one or
two people in their free time.
And I don't think
those folks usually
get anywhere near
as much, kind of,
credit for the
great work they do.
MATT: Popular tools as well.
You think of the issues they
probably have to deal with,
the community management,
dealing with pull requests
from random people.
It's a lot to try and
then make a code base that
continues to grow
and is maintainable,
and approachable, for anyone
who wants to help fix it.
So, yeah, serious kudos
to anyone who does that.
ADDY: Choose tools you'll use.
No seriously.
Choose tools you'll use.
I feel like you can
watch a show like this,
and then feel like
you have to go
use all of the new shiny things,
and that's not always the case.
It's not always going
to lead to good outcome.
MATT: Choose tools you'll use.
I'm just trying to unpack
that a little bit because it
makes zero sense to me.
I'm like, choose
tools you'll use
is like, I don't know if
I'm going to use it until I
at least pick it to try it.
ADDY: Well it means
choose tools you're
going to use longer term.
MATT: Tomorrow Webpack has
a new version of itself
called Ultrapack, say.
Do I use it?
I don't know.
If I'm on Webpack it could
be better, it could not be.
I don't-
ADDY: OK let's expand it.
Choose tools you've evaluated
for a considerable period
of time, and derived value from.
MATT: Oh my god.
So this is why I'm leaving
Totally Tooling Tips.
This is why the show's ending.
No, I would just say if
a tool's working for you,
do not just change it because
you feel like the trend is
going that way.
Only if you feel like the
tools that you're using
are on shaky ground,
you don't necessarily
think that they're
going to be around
in the foreseeable future,
maybe at that point
you start thinking,
well actually it's
not serving my purpose.
Or maybe, I need to move
on to something else just
to make sure I'm not suddenly
surprised by some big issue.
ADDY: So one of the great
things about this experience
has been it's kind of like
JavaScript therapy or tooling
therapy for us.
MATT: Well, it's just
for us we can complain
about the current
environment that we're
in terms of workflow, tooling.
Just basically going through
the churn of learning new tools,
trying new tools, keeping
on top of the tools,
even if we don't use them.
ADDY: We know what
it's like waiting
six hours for a dependency
to properly be resolved
and a bug we figured out.
So we hope that
through this show
we've conveyed some steps
that have been useful.
MATT: Yeah, and we
kind of, I imagine
there's a lot of people in
the community that kind feel
like they could have
been the only ones
and everyone else is on
top of the latest tools,
and I never felt like
that, and I kind of
hope that through
Totally Tooling Tips
people felt like it was OK to
not be on top of everything.
And it was also
super interesting
having the community
comment on a lot of videos
kind of explaining, hey
there's a new bunch of tools
that I'm using that
I'm really enjoying.
And then we kind of created
this back and forth where
we're learning about
things while we're
talking about new things.
And, for me, it's just thank you
so much for getting involved,
and for watching, and just
taking a part in all of this.
ADDY: I feel like we got
a lot out of this show.
I enjoyed doing it.
Got to hang out with you
a lot, we got a complain,
we got to learn a
lot of new things.
It's been a privilege
doing this show
and getting the opportunity
to talk to you about tools.
Hopefully you got something
of value out of it.
MATT: I hope the same as well.
And just thank you
so much for watching.
It's been awesome.
It's been a fun ride.
ADDY: It has been a fun ride.
MATT: With that-
ADDY: So with that.
MATT: One last goodbye I guess.
Bye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]